Now let's look at a slightly more
sophisticated program using the same list.
Where the data is in the sub-lists.
This function computes the total of
population of the states of New England.
It writes out the total
population of this list
of states is 14 million and something.
There's six states in this list of states,
so it does two things.
It adds up the population and
it counts the states.
Let's look and
see how this function works.
First of all,
we're going to have to have a loop.
And here's our loop.
And we're going to start off
the loop by initializing sum.
We're going to add up and
sum the populations of the states.
We're also going to use num_states for
the length of the state data.
Then we step through the loop.
We will build the sum and
then we will print our results
making use of the sum we
computed in the loop.
Let's take a look at the loop.
The loop goes from zero
through the number of states.
We're going to pull out
a particular state, the ith state,
we'll call it one_state, and
then we'll get the population of that.
Remember, the population of the state
is the sublist item of index one,
and then we'll add that
population into the sum.
So we've got sum initialized,
we pull out the population, and
then we add the population to
the sum to produce a larger sum.
Then we'll double back and
we'll get the next item i of the list.
i will go from zero to one to
two up to the number of states.
And we will have built the sum and
printed it.
Also number of states tells
us how many states there are.
And then we're printing that as well.
Let's write this function one more time
to illustrate a few more
things about programming.
As you can see,
it gives the same answer as before.
Let's look at the code just a moment.
We're going to say population
is equal to one and
the sum is equal to zero,
which we did before.
We initialized this variable that will
accumulate the sum of the populations n.
The number of states is the link
to the state data, same thing.
Now for the state in the range
of zero to number of states,
Instead of using the variable i,
which doesn't mean anything really,
we'll use state.
And then,
we add to the sum the state_data,
state_data is our big list of the state.
this is the particular sublist that we're
working with on this
passage through the loop.
And the population, the population is
always in item one of the sublist.
And zero being the name of the state.
The bottom two lines are exactly the same.
What's different here is mainly using
variable names that might be more
meaningful, like state instead of i.
And population instead of one.
Now I want you to write a function
that'll compute the average of a list.
Your output should look
something like this.
Here are a couple of lists to test on.
Here's my run.
Now my version of this function
on these two test lists.
Average of numlis which is
this first list is 53.1.
The average of numlis2 is 8.28.
Notice that I wrote out these lists so
I can be sure I got them entirely.
Numlis starts with 65 and ends with 42.
65 here.
42 here.
Numlis2 begins at four and ends with 19.
Four and 19.
It is not necessary to write them now.
But it is useful to make sure
that you included the whole list.
Now you write this function, average
of numlis, gives you a starter.
You need to replace this
pass with actual code.
When you've finished press continue and
I'll show you my solution.
Here is my solution.
Average(nlis), see I have
the same starting function.
Commented out the pass so
that I can write my code.
I'm going to sum up,
The numbers in the list.
I'm going to count the number
of elements in the list.
And to compute the average, I'm going to
take the sum and divide by that number.
That's the way you compute averages.
Now here is my loop.
For i in the range of zero to num,
num is the length of list,
I'm going to take sum and
add to the ith element of the list.
I'm going to print that ith element so
that I can actually
see that I got them all.
And I'm going to put end = " " so
that these
numbers are separated by spaces, and I
don't use a whole lot of lines to do this.
To make sure that I go to the next
line before printing out the average,
I have a print statement
with nothing in it.
And that'll finish off the line that we're
working on, by printing a new line.
Here's another version of that function
that I think illustrates
some pretty good points.
First let's execute it.
As you can see,
it gives the same solutions.
Let's take a look at this.
First of all,
we should initialize our sum to zero.
On and we will divide that sum
by the length of the list.
That's the same as the number
of items in the list.
So that gives us the average.
Now instead of using i to step
through a range as we did earlier,
we'll use num and
step through the list itself.
Then we will add to sum num, and
then print the nums with a space after
it so that we're sure we got them all.
This way we're stepping through
the list rather than stepping through
a range of numbers that's equal to
the number of items that are in the list.